# Loan_Defaulter_System
Machine Learning Project using Python

Loan lending has been playing a significant role in the financial world throughout the years. Although it is quite profitable and beneficial for both the lenders and the borrowers. It does, however, carry a great risk, which in the domain of loan lending is referred to as Credit risk. Industry experts and Researchers around the world assign individuals with numerical scores known as credit scores to measure the risk and their creditworthiness. Throughout the years machine learning algorithms have been used to calculate and predict credit risk by evaluating an individual's historical data. This study reviews the present literature on models predicting risk assessment that use machine learning algorithms.

One of the most popular techniques used for classification used in the domain of credit scoring isknown as decisiontrees which comprise several branches, root nodes, andleaf nodes. As the name implies, the technique generates a structure similar to a tree by classifying the instances and utilizing an (RPA) orrecursive portioning algorithm. Each leaf node in the tree represents a class label and allthe branches in the tree represent theoutcomes for the test, these tests are represented by internal nodes for anattribute. In this project, we will build a classification model based on data from the Loan Defaulter dataset. The main use of classification models is to score the likelihood of an event occurring. For loan data, the model will be used to predict whether a loan will be paid off in full or the loan needs to be charged off and possibly go into default. We can use the model to score the accuracy of model and identify the ones most likely to default.

The first thing we do is collect the dataset of the loan defaulter system (provided file.csv). The columns contain the financial aspects of the borrowers. These columns need to be splitted into feature and target variable. In this project, we build a classification model based on data from the Loan Defaulter dataset. For a loan defaulter system ‘Yes’ means loan paid back and ‘No’ means loan not paid back. Using Decision Tree model, we classify whether or not the borrower paid back their loan in full. We also judge the accuracy of the model based on a test case using the criterion of entropy. At last, we can visualize the decision tree.
